## Introduction of govdigital
govdigital is a german public enterprise in the legal form of a cooperative with headquarters in Berlin. Its goal is to create secure and reliable digital infrastructures and
applications for the tasks of administration and public services. govdigital was founded in December 2019 and is made up entirely of 14 public consortium partners. Members are 
exclusively public IT service providers from all three levels of the federal state, who have committed themselves to a common commitment with a high degree of commitment. The 
members of govdigital meet at eye level, at the same time other interested parties can join with relatively little effort.

The founding members are AKDB from Bavaria, Bundesdruckerei in Berlin, Dataport in Northern Germany, ekom21 from Hesse, Governikus from Bremen, KDO from Oldenburg, the City of
Cologne, the krz Lemgo, regio iT from Aachen and Südwestfalen-IT. In 2020 they will be added: LVR Infokom, the system house of the Rhineland Regional Council, the municipal IT 
service provider from Baden-Wuerttemberg, Komm.ONE, ITEBO from Osnabrück and BITBW, the state IT service provider of Baden-Wuerttemberg.

One aspect of the cooperative is the development of a block chain infrastructure for the deployment of solutions that use block chain technology. Govdigital stands for 
decentralization and participation on the one hand, but on the other hand it opens up space for forms of participation and sovereign cooperation of IT service providers in the 
public sector. The approach of govdigital is fundamentally open to technology and deals in particular with the topics of artificial intelligence and cloud in the public sector.

The digital infrastructures and applications of govdigital are produced in the data centers of its members in a networked way and are jointly managed by govdigital. Thus, the 
members of govdigital with their IT infrastructures and IT applications form a collaborative basis to provide their services effectively and efficiently. govdigital's customer 
target group is public administration (ministries, subordinate authorities at all levels of government, local government) and public and private companies which provide services
of general interest to citizens.

With regard to the topic "Blockchain", govdigital is the provider of a blockchain infrastructure, which is operated in a secure, public data room in nationwide distributed 
data centers of public IT service providers. govdigital operates a blockchain infrastructure, which offers its customers, i.e. cooperative members as well as authorized third 
parties, the possibility to operate blockchain applications and to offer them to their customers. The Blockchain is operated in the nationwide distributed data centers of the 
cooperative members. The customers of govdigital's blockchain infrastructure thus have access to a blockchain infrastructure which is especially characterized by its high 
availability and the assurance of data integrity. Proven security and trustworthiness in handling data and information is guaranteed in particular by the public law structure
and the associated obligations of govdigital and its members. Networked produced and jointly managed blockchain infrastructure from and for the public sector - this is the 
special feature of govdigital.
